% Lens Essay
% Religious Pluralism and the American State
% \ 

# Overview

## What you should learn

A lens essay takes the insights of one text and applies them to a second
text. The first text is thus the "lens" through which one sees the
second text more clearly. For example, a rhetorician might apply the
ideas of Aristotle to exposit a speech, or a sociologist might use the
analysis of Karl Marx to understand a labor organization. While
historians sometimes borrow from theorists, they more often enter into a
discussion with the interpretations of other historians. For example,
the historian Gordon Wood has written that society during the American
revolution moved through three forms of political organization:
monarchy, republicanism, and democracy. In interpreting an event, a
historian might borrow from Wood's interpretations to make a point or
might find contradictory evidence and seek to refute his
interpretations. [@wood_radicalism_1993]

By completing this assignment, you will learn to make your own
interpretation of the past while interacting with both primary evidence
and other historians' interpretations. This essay is your chance to
develop your ideas about what happened to American religious freedom and
pluralism under the influence of the state in the nineteenth century.

## Your sources

For our class discussions you have read a number of documents describing
nineteenth-century conflicts over religious pluralism. These texts
include the following:

+	_People v. Ruggles_, a blasphemy case

+	documents from the New York State Legislature about the
	incorporation of the American Society for Meliorating the Condition
	of the Jews

+	documents from American Catholics protesting the Protestantism of
	state-funded public schools

+	_Reynolds v. United States_, a test case about Mormon polygamy

+	the Comstock Act of 1873, intended to suppress vice and promote
	morality

We have also read three historians who have based their interpretations
on those texts and others like them: William Hutchison,
[@hutchison:religious:2003] who discusses changing ideas of pluralism;
Steven Green, [@green:second:2010] who argues that there was a
nineteenth-century legal disestablishment in addition to a political or
constitutional disestablishment; and David Sehat, [@sehat:myth:2011] who
argues that the nineteenth-century saw a "moral establishment" in the
nineteenth century.

Your essay must be based on one of the sets of primary documents, and on
one or two of the secondary interpretations. 

## The assignment

Your most important task in this assignment is to interpret the primary
text and put it in the broader context of nineteenth-century religious
pluralism and state power. To do this you must use the ideas of the
secondary text as a "lens" through which to see the primary text more
clearly. Some essays will find that the secondary interpretation is
substantially correct; other essays will find contradictory evidence in
the primary text.

## Your writing process

For this essay you will complete three steps. You will first summarize
the secondary text you have chosen, then outline the essay, then write the
first draft. After receiving a critique of your first draft, you will
revise it into a final draft. You will also do some meta-writing
(writing about your writing). The details of each part of the assignment
are below.

# Pre-draft 1: Summarizing an argument

**Due**: XXXXXX

An crucial scholarly skill is summarizing. Summarizing is important
for reading, because it helps you understand an author's arguments.
Summarizing is also important for writing, because arguing skilfully
requires the ability to honestly and accurately represent the views of
others. You will likely use the summaries you write for this pre-draft
assignment in the essay itself.

Select one of the secondary interpretations mentioned above which you
will use in your larger essay. Carefully read the portions of the book
assigned on the syllabus, as well as the introduction and conclusion.
You may also choose to skim other parts of the book. Then write the
following summaries:

1.	In no more than two well-written sentences, summarize the main
	claims of the book.

2.	In a paragraph of no more than 200 words, write an abstract of the
	book. The abstract should take into account both the argument and
	the sources of the book. (For a model, see the abstracts in the
	database _America: History and Life_.)

Turn in both summaries.

# Pre-draft 2: Outlining an argument

**Due**: XXXXXX

An outline is a skeleton of your argument. It permits you to organize
your main points, and gives you a guide for writing your first draft. It
also helps you to write strong topic sentences for each paragraph.

For this assignment, prepare a double-spaced outline of no more than two
pages. The outline should begin with a one- or two-sentence thesis
separate from the outline proper (see pre-draft assignment 2 for the
close-reading essay). The outline should have two levels, the first
level for your main points, and a second level for the individual
paragraphs under each main point. Each part of the outline should be a
single sentence, suitable for use as a topic sentence in the essay. At
least one of your main points should explain the argument of the lens
that you will be using. At least one of the main points should advance
your own argument. Give some thought to the way that your essay will
flow from one paragraph to another.

An example outline will be distributed in class.

# First draft

**Due**: XXXXXX

Your essay should follow the guidelines at the beginning of this
assignment sheet. The essay should be no fewer than 7 full pages and no
more than 8 pages in length. 


# First draft cover letter

**Due**: XXXXXX, stapled to the first draft of your essay (and in PDF)

After you finish writing the first draft of your paper, reread your
essay and take a moment to reflect. Draft a page-long, single-spaced
cover letter in paragraph form that answers the questions below. Then
staple it to the top of your paper before handing it in. 

1. What is the thesis of your paper? Is the thesis sentence toward the
   end of the first paragraph where it belongs?

2. Does the thesis make an argument? Does it go beyond stating the
   obvious? If not, how would you rewrite it for the final draft? 

3. What kind of evidence do you use to prove your argument? 

4. Do you use quotations? How many quotations do you use? Do you think
   this number is too few or too many? Are the quotations relevant, and
   do they actually help support your argument, or are they just there
   to fill up space? 

5. Do you use argumentative topic sentences? Or do the topic sentences
   merely restate facts? Which topic sentences would you change and why?

6. Which paragraph are you most satisfied with and why? Be
   specific---don't just say it looks good. 

7. Which paragraph are you least satisfied with and why? Again, be as
   specific as possible.

8. Are you convinced by your own argument? 

# Final draft

**Due**: XXXXXX

For the final draft, you should revise your first draft thoroughly. Take
into account the comments I have given you on previous drafts, as well
as your classmate's suggestions and the principles of writing we have
covered in class. I will evaluate your work not just on the quality of
the final draft, but on the quality of your revisions.

# Final draft cover letter

After you finish writing the final draft of your paper, reread your
essay and take a moment to reflect. Draft a page-long, single-spaced
cover letter in paragraph form that answers the questions below. Then
staple it to the top of your paper before handing it in.

1.	Is your thesis in the final draft different from your thesis in the
	first draft? If so, how is it different? Why did you change it?

2.	What are the three most significant changes you made in the final
	draft? Why did you make them? Were they successful? 

3.	How did you use the writing skills that you learned in the pre-draft
	exercises?

4.	What did you gain most from the peer review letters and exercises?
	Be very specific and explain what about their advice was helpful. 

5.	Did your classmates recommend any changes during the peer review
	that you decided not to make in the final draft? If so, why did you
	keep things the same?

6.	If you were to make any changes to this final draft, what would they
	be? Why would you make these changes, and why didn't you make them
	before handing the paper in?

7.	Do you have any other thoughts about either your writing process or
	your final draft?


# Peer review letters

**Due**: XXXXXX

When writing a peer review letter, you want to make your comments as
specific as possible so as to be of concrete help to the author when she
or he revises the essay. Keep in mind that your classmate put in a lot
of hard work and energy into writing her or his essay, so always
remember to be courteous, respectful, and supportive. 

Draft a page-long, single-spaced cover letter in paragraph form that
answers the questions below. Bring two paper copies to class, one for
your classmate and one for me. Also turn in a PDF copy.

1.	What is the author's thesis? Rewrite the author's thesis sentence
	here, and then paraphrase it in your own words so that the author
	can compare his or her intentions with what you actually understood.
	Is the thesis sentence toward the end of the first paragraph where
	it belongs? If you cannot find the thesis sentence, take your best
	guess as to what the author is trying to argue. 

2.	Does the thesis make an argument? Does it go beyond stating the
	obvious? If not, how and why would you recommend improving it? 

3.	What kind of evidence does the author use to prove his or her
	argument? Be specific.

4.	Does the author use quotations? Does he or she use too many or too
	few quotations? Are the quotations relevant, and do they actually
	help support the author's argument? Or are they just there to fill
	up space? 

5.	Do the paragraphs in the essay flow in a logical fashion? Are they
	in order? Might there be a better arrangement? If so, how would you
	recommend reordering the essay?

6.	Does the reader use argumentative topic sentences? Or do the topic
	sentences merely restate facts?

7.	Was there plenty of analysis and explanation? Or did the essay seem
	to restate facts and simply paraphrase the treaty? If so, how could
	more analysis be added to make the paper more argumentative?

8.	What do you really like about this essay and why? Be specific.

9.	What aspect of the essay do you think requires the most revision and
	why? Be specific.
