% Course Policies
% Religious Pluralism and the American State

## Assignments

I may change due dates, reading assignments, and details about writing
assignments from those listed on the syllabus. I will always give you
plenty of notice, and the changes will always be intended for your
advantage. 

I will assign you a number of small, low-stakes writing assignments
which are not listed on the syllabus. These assignments will be
announced in class, and they will count towards your participation
grade.

Students must satisfactorily complete all assignments (including
participation assignments) in order to pass this course.

## Academic integrity

You are expected to be familiar with and to follow Brandeis University's
policies on academic integrity
<<http://www.brandeis.edu/studentlife/sdc/ai>\>.

## Course website and privacy

You will have to make an account on the course website for your online
writing assignments. You may use either your real name or a *nom de
plume* (which I will keep confidential). In fact, since this is a
first-year seminar, I encourage you to remain pseudonymous online.
Later, when you have found your voice, you should write under your real
name. 

You retain the copyright to everything that you have written. Upon
your request, I will remove any of your public writing from the website
one month after grades have been distributed by the registrar.

Because this is a seminar, all of your writing assignments (but never
your grades) will be read by other classmates, as well as by me and
other instructors or administrators in the university writing program.

## Document formatting

Format all your papers to the following specifications, unless otherwise
noted. Your should also follow the more specific guidelines in Strunk &
Matzko.

Set your papers in a 12 point, common serif font (such as Times New
Roman, Palatino, or Book Antiqua). Use 1 inch margins all around. Double
space all text.

Use footnotes, not parenthetical citations or endnotes. All citations
should follow the *Chicago Manual of Style* guidelines for footnotes
(not MLA or APA, and not the *CMOS* author-date style). There is a brief
explanation in Strunk & Matzko and another on the *CMOS* website
<<http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide.html>\>. When
in doubt, consult the *Chicago Manual of Style* itself.

For each assignment, attach a cover sheet with your name, your e-mail
address, the date, and the course name. This cover sheet does not count
towards the required pages for each assignment. No identifying
information, such as your name, should be on the main pages of the
assignment. I ask for a cover sheet so that I can grade impartially:
this is to your advantage. Staple all pages together.

## Handing in work

You must turn in all assignments both in paper and electronically. You
should hand in the paper copy of each assignment at the start of class.
You should turn in the electronic copy to the LATTE drop box before the
start of class. Please submit only PDFs. You should title your filename
something like `Lastname-Firstname.lens-essay.pdf`.

## Late work

I am willing to grant extensions for cause, but you must request an
extension well in advance of the assignment's due date. For every day or
part of a day that an assignment is late, I will deduct one letter
grade.

If you take advantage of the writing center, I will accept a writing
center reward certificate for a one day extension.

## Participation and attendance

Your attendance is expected every day without exception. We will be
working closely in community, so I hope you will develop a good working
relationship with everyone in the class. You should complete readings
and assignments before class each day, and you are expected to actively
participate by listening, questioning, and speaking. Quality, not
quantity, is the key to participation.

If you must be absent, I request that you notify me by e-mail in advance
of class meeting. Even if you are absent, you must turn in assignments
before the time when our class meets.

You may miss up to three classes without penalty. After every subsequent
absence, I am required to lower your overall grade for the course by a
third of a letter grade. (E.g., an A would be reduced to an A-.) Missing
conferences counts as an absence. After you are absent six times, I am
required to give you a grade of F for the course.

## Communications

I am always glad to meet with you in person. You can make an appointment
for office hours using the Google Calendar link on the course website.
If none of those times fit your schedule, we can find another time that
does. From time to time I may offer online office hours in the evening.

For all other communications I prefer e-mail <<lmullen@brandeis.edu>\>.
I will reply to your messages within 24 hours (but never on a
Sunday). I will send official course communications to your Brandeis
e-mail address, which you should check regularly.

I will discuss grades only in person.

## Electronic devices

On certain days, which I will announce in advance, you may use laptops
or tablets in class. For all other days, please bring the course
readings in paper copy, and please stow all electronic devices by the
start of class. Cell phones are never permitted.

## Disabilities

If you are a student with a documented disability on record at Brandeis
University and wish to have a reasonable accommodation made for you in
this class, please speak with me immediately.
