% Research Essay
% Religious Pluralism and the American State
% \ 

# Overview

## What you should learn

A research paper is an original contribution to scholarship on a topic.
A research paper in history engages in two conversations. In the first
place, you listen in on the conversation which happened in the past. In
the second place, you participate in a conversation with other scholars
who have written on a topic. Writing research paper requires you to have
a dual familiarity both with what was important to people in the past,
and with what is important to people in the present.

The skills you learn in writing a historical research paper are directly
relevant to almost everything else you will ever write. You will learn
to find and interpret information, to agree or disagree with what others
have thought, and to make your own contributions that will be of use to
others.

## Your sources

For this assignment, unlike for previous assignments, you will have to
find your own sources. You will have plenty of time and help doing so,
including a day with a librarian at the Goldfarb library.

Your sources will fall into two categories: primary sources from the
past, and secondary sources which interpret the past. You can use any of
the sources we have read for class, but you will need to find additional
sources as well.

## The assignment

Write a research paper that investigates a specific conflict over
religious pluralism that involved the state. The paper should exposit
the conflict from all sides, and should engage with other scholarly
interpretations of that specific event and of American pluralism.

You must use a minimum of seven primary and four secondary sources in
writing this paper. The best papers will use more than the minimum.

Proper citations are particularly important in this paper. Be sure to
use Strunk & Matzko or other guides to Chicago style. Ask me about
tricky citations.

## Your writing process

For this essay you will complete a number of steps. After some initial
browsing of sources, you will write a paper proposal. You will then
create an annotated bibliography to help you with your research and
note-taking. Next you will create an outline that includes the sources
you will use. You will submit a first draft of the essay, which you will
later revise into a final draft. You will also do some meta-writing
(writing about your writing). You will also have several conferences
with me. The details of each part of the assignment are below.

# Pre-draft 1: Proposing a paper

**Due**: XXXXXX

A paper proposal helps you think through the process of research and
writing the paper. Of course, before you will be able to propose a paper
you will need to do some preliminary research. You'll need to know what
topic you are interested in, what questions are important about the
topic, which sources will help you answer those questions, and what
other scholars have already said about those questions.

For this assignment, work through these steps:

-   What problems or events that we have read about have interested you
    the most? Are there other events that you know about and interested
    in investigating? Which events have our main authors (Hutchison,
    Green, Sehat) mentioned that you might investigate further?

-   What sources can you use to get at those questions? Can you find
    sources on both sides of an issue? Be sure to follow footnotes in
    secondary sources---that's what they are there for. Look up sources
    in the library's print and electronic collections.

-   Skim some of the primary and secondary sources on a topic that
    interests you. Do they fit into the main problems we've been
    discussing? Can you formulate an interesting question about the
    primary sources?

Now write a proposal of one full, single-spaced page (no more, no less).
The proposal should contain the following parts:

-   A description of the event that you will write about (no more than
    four sentences)

-   A well-crafted research question about that event (no more than two
    sentences)

-   A list of primary sources that you will find and read

# Pre-draft 2: Annotating a bibliography

**Due**: XXXXXX

An annotated bibliography is a list of citations, followed by a brief
paragraph about the significance of the source. For this assignment,
make two lists of all the primary and secondary sources you plan to use
in your essay. Be sure to use the minimum number of sources, though more
are encouraged.

List these citation in proper Chicago bibliography style. After each
source write three to five sentences summarizing the source. At least
one of the sentences should explain how the source will figure in your
paper.

# Pre-draft 3: Creating a source outline

**Due**: XXXXXX

A source outline is like an argumentative outline, in that it contains
all the parts of the arguments written out as topic sentences. But a
source outline also includes quotations from the documents (primary and
secondary) that you will use to write your paper. The idea is that a
source outline gathers together all your raw materials and all your
organized thoughts on the topic, as an aid to writing your first draft.

For this assignment, prepare a double-spaced outline. The outline should
begin with a one- or two-sentence thesis separate from the outline
proper (see pre-draft assignment 2 for the close-reading essay). The
outline should have two levels, the first level for your main points,
and a second level for the individual paragraphs under each main point.
Each part of the outline should be a single sentence, suitable for use
as a topic sentence in the essay. At least one of your main points
should explain the argument of the lens that you will be using. At least
one of the main points should advance your own argument. Give some
thought to the way that your essay will flow from one paragraph to
another.

Underneath each main point copy and paste your notes on the primary or
secondary source evidence that you intend to use for that event. You
might include direct quotations or your own paraphrases. Include at
least a citation key so that you do not misplace sources. You need not
use full citations. You may also include your own thoughts under each
point as well, but there must be at least one piece of evidence for each
point.

There is no set length for this assignment, but when properly done it
will be nearly the same length as the essay itself (i.e., ten pages) and
may be even longer.

# First draft

**Due**: XXXXXX

Your essay should follow the guidelines at the beginning of this
assignment sheet. The essay should be no fewer than 10 full pages and no
more than 12 pages in length. The essay should include a bibliography,
which is not included in the page count.

# First draft cover letter

**Due**: XXXXXX, stapled to the first draft of your essay (and in PDF)

After you finish writing the first draft of your paper, reread your
essay and take a moment to reflect. Draft a page-long, single-spaced
cover letter in paragraph form that answers the questions below. Then
staple it to the top of your paper before handing it in.

1.  What is the thesis of your paper? Is the thesis sentence toward the
    end of the first paragraph where it belongs?

2.  Does the thesis make an argument? Does it go beyond stating the
    obvious? If not, how would you rewrite it for the final draft?

3.  What kind of evidence do you use to prove your argument?

4.  Do you use quotations? How many quotations do you use? Do you think
    this number is too few or too many? Are the quotations relevant, and
    do they actually help support your argument, or are they just there
    to fill up space?

5.  Do you use argumentative topic sentences? Or do the topic sentences
    merely restate facts? Which topic sentences would you change and
    why?

6.  Which paragraph are you most satisfied with and why? Be
    specific---don't just say it looks good.

7.  Which paragraph are you least satisfied with and why? Again, be as
    specific as possible.

8.  Are you convinced by your own argument?

# Final draft

**Due**: XXXXXX

For the final draft, you should revise your first draft thoroughly. Take
into account the comments I have given you on previous drafts, as well
as your classmate's suggestions and the principles of writing we have
covered in class. I will evaluate your work not just on the quality of
the final draft, but on the quality of your revisions.

# Final draft cover letter

After you finish writing the final draft of your paper, reread your
essay and take a moment to reflect. Draft a page-long, single-spaced
cover letter in paragraph form that answers the questions below. Then
staple it to the top of your paper before handing it in.

1.  Is your thesis in the final draft different from your thesis in the
    first draft? If so, how is it different? Why did you change it?

2.  What are the three most significant changes you made in the final
    draft? Why did you make them? Were they successful?

3.  How did you use the writing skills that you learned in the pre-draft
    exercises?

4.  What did you gain most from the peer review letters and exercises?
    Be very specific and explain what about their advice was helpful.

5.  Did your classmates recommend any changes during the peer review
    that you decided not to make in the final draft? If so, why did you
    keep things the same?

6.  If you were to make any changes to this final draft, what would they
    be? Why would you make these changes, and why didn't you make them
    before handing the paper in?

7.  Do you have any other thoughts about either your writing process or
    your final draft?

# Peer review letters

**Due**: XXXXXX

When writing a peer review letter, you want to make your comments as
specific as possible so as to be of concrete help to the author when she
or he revises the essay. Keep in mind that your classmate put in a lot
of hard work and energy into writing her or his essay, so always
remember to be courteous, respectful, and supportive.

Draft a page-long, single-spaced cover letter in paragraph form that
answers the questions below. Bring two paper copies to class, one for
your classmate and one for me. Also turn in a PDF copy.

1.  What is the author's thesis? Rewrite the author's thesis sentence
    here, and then paraphrase it in your own words so that the author
    can compare his or her intentions with what you actually understood.
    Is the thesis sentence toward the end of the first paragraph where
    it belongs? If you cannot find the thesis sentence, take your best
    guess as to what the author is trying to argue.

2.  Does the thesis make an argument? Does it go beyond stating the
    obvious? If not, how and why would you recommend improving it?

3.  What kind of evidence does the author use to prove his or her
    argument? Be specific.

4.  Does the author use quotations? Does he or she use too many or too
    few quotations? Are the quotations relevant, and do they actually
    help support the author's argument? Or are they just there to fill
    up space?

5.  Do the paragraphs in the essay flow in a logical fashion? Are they
    in order? Might there be a better arrangement? If so, how would you
    recommend reordering the essay?

6.  Does the reader use argumentative topic sentences? Or do the topic
    sentences merely restate facts?

7.  Was there plenty of analysis and explanation? Or did the essay seem
    to restate facts and simply paraphrase the treaty? If so, how could
    more analysis be added to make the paper more argumentative?

8.  What do you really like about this essay and why? Be specific.

9.  What aspect of the essay do you think requires the most revision and
    why? Be specific.


